Facebook has announced the launch of #SheMeansBusiness in partnership with She Leads Africa (SLA), a social community for women entrepreneurs and professionals to inspire and train female entrepreneurs across Nigeria. #SheMeansBusiness, which is designed to train thousands of women on how to build, grow and start their own businesses, has become important because of the growing number of women who do business online. According to information on the website of SLA, the training will run from May to September in six cities in Nigeria, including Lagos, Kaduna, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, Abuja and Aba. “We know that when women do better, economies do better,” said Ebele Okobi, Facebook’s Public Policy Director, Africa. “The study conducted by Development Economists further highlights this, with research suggesting that an estimated 7 million new businesses could be set up by women in Nigeria by 2021.” To further drive the programme, a website will be dedicated to feature the inspiring stories of successful and passionate female entrepreneurs across Nigeria redefining new possibilities and making huge impact. The website will also include free online tools and resources to give more women across Nigeria the mentoring and network needed to scale their businesses. Afua Osei, co-Founder of She Leads Africa said: “We’re excited to continue our partnership with Facebook to expand access to the digital skills necessary to move African businesses forward. We know that with the right tools and support, African women can compete on a global level and we look forward to taking these critical digital tools to entrepreneurs all across Nigeria.” Interested applicants can get more information about the programme here   Are you a Female Entrepreneur in Nigeria? Apply to 2017 SLA Accelerator nowJune 8, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Africa’s Biggest Event for Ladies in Entrepreneurship to Happen in LagosFebruary 9, 2018In "Entrepreneurship" Driving Innovation: Facebook to launch NG Hub in NigeriaNovember 23, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments