The African Entrepreneurship Award is offering 1 million USD to all eligible African entrepreneurs with an existing business or just an idea for a business.  If you’re looking for mentoring to launch or grow your business or idea in Africa, join the train to receive free, online mentoring from over 400 entrepreneurs, investors and business owners. The African Entrepreneurship Award, powered by BMCE Bank of Africa, offers a mentoring journey for business ideas that can impact and improve lives in Africa. The goal of the African Entrepreneurship Award is to inspire African entrepreneurs living in Africa and abroad to develop businesses across the African continent, creating jobs that improve lives. The Award partners with entrepreneurs, business leaders and leading academics from Africa, Asia, The Americas, UK and Europe. These partners are mentors who provide coaching to African entrepreneurs at every step of this journey. The journey includes USD$1 million across three categories: Education, the Environment and Uncharted areas. By this award opportunity, young entrepreneurs have a chance to begin a journey with real entrepreneurs who have been where they are today. The award program features three rounds of online mentoring where the mentors help define the markets and put the scalability of the different ideas to the test. Subsequently in October, the young entrepreneurs in the top 50 are visited by the Awards team. Lastly in December finalists benefit from a 3-day Boot Camp; then pitch their ideas to the Presidential Jury. The jury decides the number of winners and how the $1 million award is shared. Eligibility: You, the entrepreneur, must meet the following criteria to submit your business proposal: Your idea or business is a for-profit, you have a strategy for positive social impact, your idea is for Africa, or an African country, your idea or business includes a technological component, you must be a citizen of an African country, You must be a minimum of 18 years old as of November 1, 2018. and your business or idea must be applicable in an African country. Also, your business or idea must include a technological component (digital, machinery, computers, ICT, automated processes and field related technologies),  and you need to articulate the problem you are trying to solve as well as the solution you offer. Application Deadline is April 30th 2018. Apply HERE. Transforming Africa: Entrepreneurs can apply for Tony Elumelu Entrepreneurship 2018 ProgrammeJanuary 16, 2018In "Entrepreneurship" Tony Elumelu Foundation set to host 1000 entrepreneurs in LagosSeptember 18, 2017In "Business" African Development Bank plans to make farming 'cool for young agripreneurs'October 20, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments