Global search engine company, Google, has announced today in Lagos, Nigeria, the launch of a new feature on Google Search to help job seekers in three African countries, Nigeria, Kenya, and South Africa. With the feature, relevant job postings from across the web will be structured in a way that job seekers can get details about the postings, job title, and location, among others. In addition, companies and small businesses can explore two options to make sure their job postings appear on Google. The first option is the ‘I post jobs on my own website,’ which organisations that post jobs on their website can use to integrate their job posting information to Google. The second option is the ‘third-party to post jobs’ for companies using third party platforms such as ATS providers, job boards, and job distributors that  have already integrated with Google to post vacancies. Juliet Ehimuan-Chiazor, Google’s Country Director in Nigeria, said during the unveiling of the feature that it would help millions of job seekers find new opportunities. “This new jobs search tool will be a key driver for connecting job seekers to open opportunities, helping more people to grow with Google,” said Ehimuan-Chiazor. “For the first time, when someone uses their phone or computer to search on Google for a job; they will see a streamlined experience letting them explore, research and find relevant local job postings. “This launch builds on Google’s existing commitment in Sub Saharan Africa to improve economic opportunities for job seekers and employers, demonstrated through its ‘Grow with Google’ initiatives. “Users will be able to view at-a-glance details about the postings, such as job title, location, whether it’s full-time, part-time or an internship, as well as detailed information should a job be of interest.” she added.  ARE YOU A LEARNER?  GOOGLE IS NOT A SEARCH ENGINE!May 29, 2017In "Perspectives" African entrepreneurs can leverage co-working spaces to learn and grow  -George Akande, Co-founder, FastLaunchMay 30, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Covenant University drives Entrepreneurship with CEDS and Hebron Startup LabsJune 17, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments