Nigerian incubation hub, Passion Incubator, has partnered with the Swedish Embassy in Nigeria to launch Collaborate.ng, a platform that connects corporates and startups. Collaborate aims to proffer solutions for corporates through startups that are building disruptive technologies and also help startups gain exposure and win new deals. According to Passion Incubator, corporate organisations can explore solutions from startups through the platform to solve their biggest challenges. The project is in two phases: First, some Swedish corporates will be engaged and advised on their future strategies. The next phase will allow corporate organisations that have problems to be solved send in their request and the problem statement. The challenges are uploaded on the platform and any startup can select a problem it is interested in working on. The startups are vetted and allowed to work on projects assigned to them. Olufunbi Falayi, a partner at Passion Incubator said: “Corporate organisations face challenges that yearn for solutions and startups can typically solve these problems.” Falayi added that some companies like Flexenclosure, Oriflame and SKF are already signed up and more corporates are to be on-boarded in the coming weeks. The Swedish Ambassador to Nigeria, Mrs. Inger Ultvedt, said the creative spirit that is in large supply in Nigeria made her country to support the project. “I have witnessed an enormous creativity and also a high level of skill amongst the startups in Nigeria,” she said. “But due to the recession in 2016 and the present slow economic growth in Nigeria, many of these startups have plenty of time to do more. Every company needs qualified people to help out on some special technical challenge that they are facing.” Fintech startups can win up to $1m in investment at the Global Startup Challenge 2017October 10, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Riby, a fintech, picks ticket to 1776 Challenge Cup World Finals in New YorkAugust 30, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Meet the Startups Pitching at Seedstars Africa Regional SummitNovember 16, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments