The second edition of the Professor Ayodele Awojobi Design Competition (PAADC) kicks into full swing with the announcement of May 19, 2018 set as the date for the grand finale. PAADC, organised by the University of Lagos Engineering Society (ULES), is a national design competition, which encourages Nigerian undergraduates to solve Nigeria’s problems using science and technology. The competition is aimed primarily at sparking ingenuity in the minds of undergraduate students by challenging them to push the boundaries of science and technology in solving problems in Nigeria. The maiden edition, which held in July 2017, drew teams of innovative students from all over the country, and challenged them to actively participate in moving the nation forward. In that edition, Team Mufasa of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) came first, beating four other universities in the grand finale, carting home N200,000 in prize money. “This year’s edition promises to be more exciting, engaging and impactful,” according to Hassana Awodipe, Head, Media and Publicity for the Second Edition of the competition. Winners of this year’s competition will get cash prizes in the following order: First Place: N500,000, Second Place: N300,000, Third Place: N200,000. The winners will also receive the opportunity to have their designs implemented, as well as internship positions in various organizations related to the field of their design. The internship positions will be awarded to members of all five finalist teams. “With the first edition of this competition, we have begun to brew a mentality of seeing ourselves as solutions and resources, rather than subject to someone else’s decisions all the time. If this were to continue, Nigeria would begin to take on a wonderful shape and in the long run, our standard of living would be greatly improved,” according to a statement issued by ULES. Criteria to Compete The Design: The competition comprises three stages; 1. Stage 1 (Application): During this stage, all designs will be submitted via the competition website. 2. Stage 2 (Judging): During this stage, entries to the competition will be thoroughly examined by our judges. The five most outstanding designs will proceed to the final stage. 3. Stage 3 (Grand Finale): For the grand finale, the five most outstanding teams will defend their designs before peers and seasoned professionals, after which the winners will be announced. Finalists will be required to present a prototype of their design, and focus will be on the innovativeness of the design. Award Winners of the competition will get cash prizes in the following If you are interested in pitching your design, click here.   LAUTECH beats 4 universities to win first ever Professor Ayodele Awojobi Design CompetitionJuly 21, 2017In "Events" How life's disappointments could not stop these students from inventing a life-saving deviceJuly 31, 2017In "NEW FRONTIERS" How a Nigerian entrepreneur is promoting robotics education among studentsOctober 25, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments