Hubs.ng, a Nigerian tech startup, is building a digital platform that offers services for people in different walks of life. Three young Nigerians, David Itopaking, Philia Julius, and Marvelous Steve founded the startup in August 2017. The idea was inspired by the interconnectedness of a natural ecosystem with benefit to all of its members. Itopaking who also serves as the company’s CEO said four different services were initially launched, but the company is now pushing a dream of building a bigger digital platform. The four services were Amplify for content publishing, Market Square for e-commerce, Biz Direct for business directory listing, and Hubs Sites offering free third level domain and paid hosting. “We wanted to create a service pack for entrepreneurs and businesses with all four services in a plan,” says Itopaking, “but we later on got a bigger vision of creating more services and building a complete digital ecosystem which every Nigerian class would find a niche to fit in and also explore new opportunities. According to him, the company is focused on building standard and user-friendly experience for its customers. Most of the services are free but there is premium where the users are rendered value added packs for some fees. Revenue from adverts is also another way the company expects to generate income. Funding is one of the major challenges the company is having. “We are hoping to get good investors who would see the big picture for starters like us. Most services on our platform are not paid for and revenue generation would not be readily active until we hit a target amount of users.” says Itopaking. Hubs.ng has a strategy to scale its operations based on offering solution at no or minimal cost for its users and becoming alternative platform. “If everything you need is on the hubs.ng ecosystem, there would be no need to use foreign services since their terms of service & restrictions most times don’t favour us,” Itopaking added. In the meantime, the startup is hosting its servers in a reliable data center in the United States. However, part of its expansion drive is to build a complete off grid data center in the nearest future in Nigeria.    comments