From March 8 to 11, 2018, the seat of Catholic power, in partnership with tech giants Microsoft and Google hosts VHacks, a 36-hour collaborative event in the Vatican City. The event will address global problems, with the world’s brightest students from diverse academic, ethnic and religious background a s participants. VHacks seeks to use technological innovation to overcome social barriers and embrace common values. The mission is threefold: leverage technology to address current global problems centered on hackathon themes, promote collaboration among youth leaders across diverse academic, ethnic and religious backgrounds and lastly to encourage values-based institutions to embrace technology to further their missions. Additionally, the hackathon aims to encourage solidarity by restoring human-centric thinking and values in our increasingly digital world, support open communication between individuals and organizations representing differing faiths, as well as to create mutual understanding and constructive cooperation.  The hackathon will also strengthen, support, and mobilize resources for migrants and refugees to assist them with relocation and integration. “How wonderful would it be if the growth of scientific and technological innovation would come along with more equality and social inclusion,” remarked Pope Francis. Participants will be selected through a combination of partner universities providing teams and an open application where any student enrolled in an undergraduate or graduate program is eligible to apply. Participants are chosen based on academic accomplishments, innovative thinking, and alignment with the mission statement. The program is organized by Optic Humana Technologia and Secretaria Pro Communicatione. Asides tech giants Microsoft and Google, this program is also in partnership with world number one messaging platform, LivePerson, customer relationship management software solutions and enterprise cloud computing company, SalesForce, among others. Learn more about this event HERE  How a Nigerian entrepreneur is promoting robotics education among studentsOctober 25, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" Why innovation is key to solving problems, harnessing opportunities in NigeriaSeptember 11, 2017In "Business" Covenant University drives Entrepreneurship with CEDS and Hebron Startup LabsJune 17, 2017In "Entrepreneurship" 0 comments